Adding some top-level docs including testing plan and pub checklist (#24)
usnistgov/xslt-blender: TESTING.md

## Testing

What does failure mean? Assume (worst case scenario) this project deploys code with bugs in it. What could happen?

* Browser runtime errors resulting in defective page displays. If we deploy an XSLT with errors, you could see red boxes in your output or just empty spots.
* Failure to deliver results ("hang") - again, DOS limited to browser runtime. Assuming we mess up somehow, one of these applications might crash your browser, but not your entire system.
* Delivery of wrong results

what it doesn't mean -

> * data exposure or leakage (assuming the browser is secure)
> * wider system effects including runaway effects
> 
> To the extent that the latter two issues occur at all, they are relatively easy to defend against both by developers and users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* data exposure or leakage (assuming the browser is secure)
* wider system effects including runaway effects

At this time, xslt-blender is not tested rigorously to detect or defend against these classes of behavior. The design of a xslt-blender as a consumable library by the authors or other developers outside of NIST allows the latter to understand and implement solutions with this library in their own projects with their own discretion. They are expected to account for such classes of behavior accordingly. Developers must be mindful of these classes of behavior or mitigate against them, when prudent, and they ought to do in the context of applications for a specific business purpose. 
```

Like above, I'd be very specific  we/you do not account for this in your current implementation and testing procedure. Like I have said before, I would argue against qualitatively defining application security concerns around this as easy. I know it is redundant and either/both can be improved, but I'd specific about what checklist requirements are implemented or not.

# Testing

> Also see the [[Assessment]] wiki page for background related to testing, with information on third-party auditing and testing.

Reviewer: Non-blocking: fix the wiki links here?

This page describes in general the testing that has been done, while the wiki describes methods for testing as part of assessment and offers advice for assessing XSLT.

## Layered architecture and least power

> See the wiki, for example the pages on [[Architecture]] and [[Controls]].

Reviewer: Non-blocking: fix the wiki links here?

The layered architecture of an XML/XSLT-based system makes it possible to "divide and conquer" the testing problem, by helping to discriminate between kinds of testing, to determine which testing approaches provide defense against actual risks, to manage testing, and to isolate issues and bugs. Because the implementation is supported by robust standards including HTML5, DOM, CSS and ECMAScript, commodity tools are used where possible, rendering it possible to concentrate testing efforts effectively.

## System Components

> See the [[Architecture]] page for details on system components. The summary below describes how different components are tested.

Reviewer: Non-blocking: ditto more wiki link fixes.

#### XSLT logic

For the same reasons, testing XSLT occurs heavily during development "under load". Typically, testing XSLT is also supported with one or more sample XML documents, illustrating potential inputs and the range of potential inputs. In many cases these useful resources for development and maintenance are also committed to the repository.

In appropriate cases, XSpec unit tests may also be provided for XSLT per project, as described below.

## Testing in development

Every application is "tested under load" with sample data as it is developed, according to an agile "spiral" development pattern suited to XSLT.

Applications are also tested across browsers before deployment to ensure consistency.

## Audits / code review

Since all source code is committed to the repository, and applications are self-contained, code audits are straightforward.

### XSLT code review

> XSLT is an easy language to audit by experienced practitioners.

Reviewer: I will again say we resist the urge to qualify the ease of audit based on language alone. This week I presented some examples, especially with combination of XSLT with any other language or runtime. No language or runtime or environment is inherently simple, and I would strongly suggest we resist the urge to say any language is inherently easier or harder to audit.

```suggestion
XSLT is an auditable by practitioners using application security analysis technique applicable to a variety of languages, runtimes, and environments.
```
